Chapter 1 - Large Numbers
1. Place Value Charts
   a. Indian Place Value system
   b. International Place Value system
2. Reading and writing 8-digit and 9-digit numbers
3. Face Value and Place Value
4. Comparison of Large Numbers
   a. Successor and Predecessor
   b. Comparing Number
   c. Ascending and Descending Order
5. Rounding Numbers
   a. Rounding to nearest 10, 100, 1000, 10000 and so on
6. Roman Numerals
   a. Rules
   b. Seven Basic symbols - I, V, X, L, C, D, M

Chapter 2 - Addition, Subtraction and Their Applications
1. Addition of Large Numbers
   a. Parts of addition - augend, addend, sum
2. Properties of Addition
   a. Associative Property
   b. Identity Property - Zero is the Identity element for addition
   c. Commutative Property
3. Estimating Sums
4. Subtraction of Large Numbers
   a Parts of Subtraction - Minuend, subtrahend, difference
5. Properties of Subtraction
   a. Commutative Property
   b. Associative Property - This property does not hold for Subtraction
   c. Identity Property - Zero is the Identity element for Subtraction of Integers
6. Estimating Differences
7. Addition and Subtraction together
   a. Addition first, Subtraction next

Chapter 3 - Multiplcation, Division, and their applications
1. Multiplication Tables
   a. Terms used in multiplcation - Multiplicand, Multiplier, Product
2. Properties of Multiplcation
   a. The product of a number and 1 is the number itself
   b. The product of a number and zero is always zero
   c. Like addition, multiplication is commutative, which means changing the order of factors does not change the product
   d. Similar to addition, multiplication is also associative - The product of three numbers does not change when the grouping of the numbers is changed
   e. Distributive Property of multiplcation over addition or subtraction - If a sum or difference of two numbers is multiplied by another number, they can be multiplied separately and then added or subtracted
3. Multiplcation with 4-digit and 5-digit numbers
   a. Lattice method for multiplication
4. Multiplcation with 10, 100 and 1000
5. Estimating Products
6. Application of Multiplcation
7. Division
   a. Term used in Division - Divisor, Quotient, Dividend, Remainder
8. Properties of Division
   a. Division by 1
   b. Division by itself
   c. Division of 0 by any number
   d. A number cannot be divided by 0
   e. (divisor * quotient) + Remainder = Dividend
   f. Remainder is always smaller than the divisor
9. Division by 10, 100 and 1000
10. Division of 5-digit by 2-digit
11. Application of Division
    a. Unitary method - A method where we find the value of a single unit from the value of multiple units and the value of multiple units from the value of a single unit
12. More about operations on numbers
    a. DMAS Rule



Chapter 4 - Multiples and Factor
1. Factors
    a. Properties of factors
        i. 1 is the smallest factor of every number
        ii. Every number except 1 has atleast two factors, that is 1 and the number itself
        iii. A factor of a number is a divisor that exactly divides the given number
        iv. The factor of a number is always less than or equal to the number. A number is the biggest factor of itself
    b. Rainbow method for checking all the factors of a number
2. Multiples
    a. Properties of Multiples
        i. Every number is a multiple of itself as well as 1
        ii. The number of multiples of a number is indefinite
        iii. Every multiple of a number is greater than or equal to the number
        iv. The smalles multiple of a number of the number itself
3. Divisibility Test
    a. Divisibility test of 2
    b. Divisibility test of 3
    c. Divisibility test of 4
    d. Divisibility test of 5
    e. Divisibility test of 6
    f. Divisibility test of 7
    g. Divisibility test of 8
    h. Divisibility test of 9
    i. Divisibility test of 10
    j. Divisibility test of 11
4. Prime and Composite Numbers
    a. Prime numbers - Numbers having only two factors that is 1 and number itself are called prime numbers
    b. Composite numbers - Numbers having more than two factors are called Composite Numbers
    c. Twin Prime numbers - Prime numbers with one composite numner between them or two prime numbers whose difference is two are called twin primes
    d. Co-primer numbers - Two numbers that have only 1 as the common factor are called co-prime numbers
5. Prime Factorisation
    a. Factor tree method
    b. Division Method
6. Highest Common Factor or Greatest Common Divisor and Lowest Common Multiple
    a. Common division method for HCF
    b. Common division method for LCM
7. Relationship between HCF and LCM
    a. HCF x LCM = First Numnber x Second Number - The product of two numbers is equal to the product of their HCF and LCM

Chapter 5 - Fractions
1. Fractions on Number Line
    a. Number lines to represent a while with equal Parts
    b. Number lines with more than a whole with equal Parts
2. Types of Fractions
    a. Like Fractions
    b. Unlike Fractions
    c. Unit Fractions
    d. Proper Fractions
    e. Improper Fractions
    f. Mixed Fractions
3. Converting Fractions
    a. Converting mixed fraction into an Improper fraction
    b. Conversion of an improper fraction into a mixed fraction
4. Simplifying or Reducing Fractions
    a. Make a fraction as simple as possible - the numerator and denominator will have only 1 as common factor
    b. Method 1 - Keep dividing the given fraction by the same number till the fraction connot be divided any further
    c. Find HCF of the two terms (numerator and denominator), and then divide it with the fraction
    d. Equivalent Fractions
    e. Checking for equivalence
        i. by Cross multiplication
        ii. by reducing the Fractions
5. Comparing and Ordering Fractions
    a. Comparing fractions with same numerator
    b. Comparing fractions with same denominator
    c. Comparing unlike fractions
        i. Using LCM method - converting unlike into Like
        ii. Cross multiplication method
6. Addition and Subtraction of Fractions
    a. Only like fractions can be added or subtracted
    b. only numerators can be added or subtracted not the denominator as it represents the number of equal parts in each object or a set
    c. To add or subtract unlike fractions, convert unlike fractions into like fractions
    d. The answer should be in its simplest form or mixed number form
7. Multiplication of Fractions
    a. Multiplying the numerator with numerator and denominator with denominator
    b. Before Multiplying, simplify first if possible
    c. Answer should be in its simplest form or in mixed number form
    d. Properties of multiplcation
8. Reciprocal of Fractions
    a. Multiplicative inverse of a number is called the reciprocal of a number
    b. The reciprocal of a proper fraction is an improper fraction and vice versa
    c. The reciprocal of a whole number is a proper fraction, with 1 as the numerator and whole number as the denominator
    d. 0 has no reciprocal, as division by 0 is not possible
    e. Product of a number and its reciprocal is 1
9. Division of Fractions
    a. To divide the whole number by a fractional number or a fractional number by another fractional number, find the reciprocal of the divisor
    b. Multiply the dividend by the reciprocal of the divisor
    c. Answer should be in its simplest form or in mixed number form
    d. Properties of division
        i. When 0 is divided by a fraction, the quotient is always 0
        ii. A fraction divided by itself gives 1 as the quotient
        iii. We cannot divide any fraction by 0
        iv. When 1 is divided by a fraction, the quotient is the reciprocal of the divisor
        v. When a fraction is divided by 1, the quotient is always the fraction itself.
